---
title: Inexperience Is An Asset
description:
author: Yosef Serkez
tags: essay
---
Build a one page resume highlighting your experiences they tell me. Which it does quite sadly, as if 3 to 4 bullet points were ever going to represent the character development afforded to me during the short period I spend as a "software developer" for "fill in the generic company here". The resume is a lifeless representation of words placed with so much effort to tell a natural narrative of triumph and accomplishment. But how about those who demonstrate abilities without the track record of quantifiable accomplishments, why so quick to disregard their candidacy. People are more complicated than the "5% net reduction in churn" their resume so proudly boasts. How about the coworkers around them who had a 20% reduction in productivity as a result of their constant banter. Or visa versa, the young college grad whose got not a lick of professional accomplishment to speak of, yet was the best note taker in his computer science class and helped multiple of his friends pass the class. Are we measuring for that?  As silly as it sounds maybe there should be a section for all those intangible skills we acquired while hacking away at a trading bot never completed, or the countless essay drafts begging to be trashed for good. How about someplace to share relevant lessons learned from a stranger years ago that are still carried to this day. Surely those speak for something. Now obviously I understand that not even an autobiography could properly represent a person for who they are and what they're capable of. But is breaking it down to a just few key words, carefully crafted for a screening algorithm to group us into a list of automatic emails, really the best we can do? To this I have no clear solution, and maybe its for the same reason we still don't have a good dating app. Understanding people is hard. Like really hard. So we do our best by finding the most generic and easily defined metrics and run with it. But I propose theres more nuance to inexperience than the ink on a paper might suggest.

There seems to be a common misunderstanding with regards to inexperience. Is inexperience inability, or lack of time exercising those abilities. Because if it's the former, then let's recategorize that as incapable. And for those who are incapable at a task we need not waste our time. And if it;s just lack of exercise, then where you may initially see an inexperienced youngling, might reside as great an asset as any. If not greater. A young mind whose just reached mental maturity, as powerful as it'll ever be, capable in its abilities, yet still malleable in its ways. How can anyone not see that as the perfect asset. 

Understandably hiring inexperienced, yet capable talent isn't in every companies best interest. For simplicities sake we can break the types of businesses into three distinct stages (in practice there are many more). 
1. Early Stage startups (beta stage with few to no paying customers).
2. Small to medium size business (has a product with enough paying customers that leaving venture capital needs out of it we would have a sufficient business as is).
3. Large business (a business that is post IPO or acquisition, generally doing 100+ million in sales per year).

Now each of these business have different incentives when hiring. While I have never worked in Human Resources (what a funny term) I hypothesize that they are very generally interested as follows.
1. Early stage companies - Get really capable individuals who are going to make or break our vision.
2. Small to medium companies - Get experienced individuals who are going to fill the seats as we grow and hopefully help us figure this shit out.
3. Large Business - Demonstrate our power by scooping up as many of the most talented candidates as we can, keeping them from our competitors, while setting the standard for talent industry wide.

As for the early stage company, I get it. If you don't hire for experience, there may not be time to provide. You may just be too vulnerable to hold anyones hand. That doesn't mean it's not possible, just a reasonable concern. As for the rest, opening up seats for "inexperienced" should be a priority. And to their credit there are quite a few companies who do this well. Apprenticeship programs are becoming more commonplace across the industry. Which brings me to my next point. If things are this bad in the tech industry, where we seem to be miles ahead in taking risks and trying alternative methods, I can't imagine what my friends in other industries go through. 

To myself, and to my comrades I say when your feeling frustrated, six months later with still no job, wondering what you should have done differently, where you slacked off, how you didn't work harder in the past, and why you're still with so few valuable projects and experiences to show for yourself. Quite. Don't listen to the voice that says it's because you're lazy. Or dumb. Or lazy and dumb. Sure if only it where so this all wouldn't really be your fault then would it. But these lies are not ones you've created or even believe. These lies are ones being whispered by a system whose metrics of value are as discombobulated as the transmission in my first car.  An awkwardly inefficient system of false metrics, miscommunications, and misaligned incentives, pleading for innovation. This system of course is the all to familiar practice of pairing employees with employers. A not so simple [Stable Marriage Problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stable_marriage_problem) where your'e the looser on the bottom. But don't despair. You may be "inexperienced" as of yet, but stay inspired, opportunistic, curious, eager, and flexible in your ways. Your experience will evolve. Most importantly remember your worth is not defined by any so called metrics of achievement, but rather of your own qualities of esteemed virtue. With this you can be sure that no matter how many bullets are struck across your resume, you have managed to maintain a grasp on those qualities so few seem to keep, and that is priceless experience.

*This is a letter I wrote to myself a while back after being turned away from the second job in a few weeks for "lack of experience" while simultaneously being told I had the right technical skills, and mental drive. Maybe they weren't telling the whole truth, but in my opinion 4 interviews in should not be the point at which they question the length of a resume. Rejection is never nice and not a surprise when interviewing, it was the only the double standard in communication, expectations, and respect that got me thinking about how much better this process could be. For everyone.

