---
title: This Site
description:
author: Yosef Serkez
tags: meta
---

# What is this site
A place to dump, curate, and collect my thoughts, ideas, writings, and interests. There will likely be lots of written
reflections. Potentially some book or article reviews. Lists of websites I like. And possibly even some photos. I guess
one could think of it as my computers public folder, with just enough curation to keep it coherent and interesting.

### The Format
**Website**

I'll be experimenting here so its bound to change, but here are my current thoughts.

1. It should be simple to load, navigate, and read.
2. Posts are oftentimes related and should somehow reflect that.
3. Maybe the home page is sectioned / organized?

Obviously I'm trying to figure this part out. I do think organization is a powerful enabler, so be patient with the
process.

**Posts**

All posts can have a

1. Title
2. A few tags categorizing the post
3. Some links within to other places
4. A *read next* section allowing me the option to group multiple posts in succession.

### Terms and Conditions
It's all just my brain doing brain things so don't take it to seriously or hold it against me please. Also consider
everything a work in progress, constantly evolving, with the possibility of edits or death. Most of what I post here is
coming from my personal notes, as a means of self encouragement to write more.

### How to get updated
Right now through checking back in. I suppose I'm not quite looking for an audience just yet.

### Technical Stuff
Its important for me to build quick and simple with full ownership and flexibility. That's why I built this site from
scratch in Jekyll with hand written HTML and CSS, deploying and serving it with one command line from Surge.sh. There
are no other frameworks or tooling involved. I do imagine I will at some point want to implement further features but
that will be as needed. I want to discover and solve obstacles as necessary. So this means only introducing tools with
intention. This is this sites overall philosophy. Start from basics, and brazenly work up from there.

### Contact
yosefserkez@gmail.com

### How will my data be used
Lol. You've just come to expect that haven't you. Nah none of that here.