---
title: Aspiration Catcher
description:
author: Yosef Serkez
tags: goals process
---

# Aspiration Catcher
Three days ago I decided to be an Aspiration Catcher. That is someone who's driven by the pursuit of goals and
aspirations, rather than their results. This doesn't mean the results are unwanted, or undesirable, just that **the
overall objective is to be someone who pursues aspirations**, freeing myself from the results driven metric for a
narrative driven objective. "I am someone who pursues my aspirations", rather than "someone who hasn't yet yielded
results on his goals". There is nothing profound about this, yet I feel quite liberated by the permission, self granted.

For some time I have been paralyzed by the seemingly endless world of opportunities on which I can spend my limited
time. Granted this is a privileged problem to be faced with, and non-ironically the knowledge of that only complicates
things further. It seems almost daily that I come across something new that might warrant my precious attention. So I
have spent significant time wondering how can I create a framework for selecting a time commitment that is personally
meaningful, socially beneficial, and takes full advantage of my interests and abilities. Recently I begun to realize how
the past year and a half of travels has provided so much insight into this issue. The source of these insights are as
varied as the experiences surrounding them. Though I don't at this moment intend to lay them out, its enough to mention
that they include many conversations, cultures contrasted, time spent alone, time spent together, books read, challenges
overcome, and of course endless observation and reflection. In this boiling pot of experiences I began asking myself how
can I select one direction to focus my attention in a so called "mission". In trying to find one direction I asked if
there are specific needs I wanted met, and if so could I find a path optimized for covering the most number of needs
possible? So I spent further time reflecting on a hierarchy of [[needs]] and considering where I stand. Some of the
things I learned from this are my lacking of future security, directed passion, and fear of not accomplishing anything
of relative significance. But try as I might this way of thinking wasn't providing the solution I anticipated. Until I
doubted my premise. What if for me there is no one goal, mission, or purpose?

My objective is no longer the accomplishment of a selected goal, or purpose, but rather the **pursuit** of many
desirable accomplishments. This renders the act of making a list of goals as honorable as each subsequent action toward
checking them. What makes it onto the list is a reflection of personal values and those oh so needy needs, while how I
accomplish them is yet to be discovered. Some of the goals will be long term others short, some I will share publicly
others I'll keep private. A goal can be anything that I want a part of my narrative, no matter how large or small.
Furthermore it is not absolutely necessary that definitive success is reached, but rather that I give it a beyond fair
attempt. My understanding is that rarely is a pursuit deemed unworthy even if all that is received is the experience
itself. Now is this the final answer to my quest? Likely not, but what it is is a means to gather momentum, and for my
current needs, that is valid enough. My thoughts tomorrow may very well be different than my thoughts today, but that's
the point isn't it. Go for what I know, want, and can, and see what emerges.

As for actions, today I build a blog, one of my long time goals, with a mission of publishing at least one writing a
week, for three months. Sounds easy enough until the unprofessional perfectionist catches on. But so what. There will be
challenges to pursuing goals and aspirations, many of which I predict will be within my own power to overcome. Which is
exactly what I intend to do. This blog will stand as a bulletin board of sorts, where I can document, ideate, create,
collect and share the journey in a lightly curated yet highly forgiving way. And who knows I may just accomplish
something I'm proud of.

**Read next**: [This Site](2022-01-04-This-Site.md), [Needs: A Mental Model](2022-01-04-Needs:-A-Mental-Model.md)
